{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
\stshfdbch0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 DomaineText-Regular;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\stylesheet {\s0 Normal;}{\s99 Footnote;}}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\info
{\author Devin Halladay}
{\creatim\yr2018\mo2\dy22\hr14\min41\sec42\timesinceref541021302}
{\revtim\yr2018\mo2\dy22\hr19\min28\sec45\timesinceref541038525}}\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 \fet2 \ftnbj \ftnnar \aftnnar 
\sectd \sftnnar \saftnnar 
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl336\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Many interpretations of the 
\i Republic 
\i0 have focused solely on individual sections of the dialogue, removed from the context of the whole. In doing so, these interpretations have forgotten to address the principal modalities of the work: its stunningly complex unity, and its subversive use of dialectics. Of course, each section of the 
\i Republic
\i0  has a wealth of wisdom to offer us on its own\'97each covers an expansive theoretical territory, carefully teetering the line between political philosophy and metaphysics, at times falling onto one side or the other before it regains its footing. However, it is only when we take all these sections up in our arms and see them fit together in mosaic fashion that we are able to make a sweeping interpretation of the work. To that end, this essay will construct a cohesive system out of the interlocking series of regimes, allegiances, and thralldoms Plato confronts in the 
\i Republic
\i0 . Additionally, by reading Plato\'92s dialectics as a semiotic sign, this essay will reveal, buried beneath dialectical complexity, Plato\'92s underlying argument: that the ideal political order is not a utopia but an apparatus explicitly designed to correct and guard against transcendental and immanent{\super\chftn{\*\footnote\pard\plain\s99{\fs24\up0\super\chftn} \f0\fs32\b0\i0\ul0 
\f1\fs24 I distinguish between \'93transcendental\'94 and \'93immanent\'94 disorder because Plato\'92s exploration of the tripartite soul and its mapping onto the polis draws a tight link between disorder in the individual soul and disorder in the polis. When the soul itself is in disorder, this is \'93transcendent\'94 disorder\'97the dialectical counterpoint to \'93immanent\'94 disorder, which affects the polis at large. In Plato\'92s model, because the polis finds its origin in the soul, when enough souls are in disorder, it throws the entire class, and then the entire polis, into anarchy. Thus, Plato\'92s goal with the 
\i Republic
\i0  is to develop a system of political and social order that guards against transcendental disorder\'92s tendency to give way to immanent disorder.
\f0\fs32 }\nosupersub}\f0\fs32\b0\i0\ul0  disorder.}