Many interpretations of Plato’s Republic have focused solely on individual sections of the dialogue, removed from the context of the whole. In doing so, they have forgotten to address the principal modalities of the work: its stunningly complex unity, and its subversive use of dialectics. Of course, each section of the Republic has a wealth of wisdom to offer us on its own—each covers an expansive theoretical territory, carefully teetering the line between political philosophy and metaphysics, at times falling onto one side or the other before it regains its footing. However, it is only when we take all these sections up in our arms and see them fit together in mosaic fashion that we are able to make a sweeping interpretation of the work. In neglecting the principal modalities of the work, then, I fear the primary aim of the Republic has been overlooked or misinterpreted for 2,400 years. In response to these misinterpretations, this essay will construct a cohesive system out of the series of political regimes, social allegiances, and transcendental thralldoms Plato confronts in the Republic. Additionally, by reading Plato’s dialectics as a semiotic sign, this essay will reveal, buried slyly beneath dialectical complexity, Plato’s underlying objectives. These objectives, broadly outlined, are: to prove the infeasibility of utopia, to map the allegiances that were leading to the decay of ancient Greek culture, and to provide a solution to the problem of creating a resilient and prosperous political order. Plato accomplishes all these things by using the struture of dialectics as a tool for implicitly constructing an apparatus that corrects and guards against transcendental and immanent disorder in the polis.