After adding this fourth taxonomy to the mix, it is hopefully becoming clearer what Plato’s purpose is in developing these taxonomical systems. By far and away the most common reading of these taxonomies is that they were simply developed to rank regimes, classes, and parts of the soul by their virtue. But there is something else at play here—something far more interesting and valuable: in summa, when all four of these taxonomies are superimposed on each other, they form an apparatus of order. Or, to put it another way, these superimposed taxonomies form a new ontology of sociopolitical order in such a way that the ontology itself is intended to perpatuate and correct the sociopolitical order it contains. A self-contained, self-regulating system—an apparatus.

 This apparatus is composed of interlocking social and political forces that prevent a political order from disintegrating and correct for the normal decay present in any political order. The term “apparatus” here comes from Foucault:

What I’m trying to single out with this term is, first and foremost, a thoroughly heterogenous set consisting of discourses, institutions, architectural forms, regulatory decisions, laws, administrative measures, scientific statements, philosophical, moral and philanthropic propositions—in short, the said as much as the unsaid. Such are the elements of the apparatus. The apparatus itself is the network that can be established between these elements…

…by the term “apparatus” I mean a kind of historical moment, so to speak, that at a given historical moment has as its major function the response to an urgency. The apparatus therefore has a dominant strategic function…

…we are speaking abotu a certain manipulation of relations of forces, of a rational and concrete intervention in the relations of forces, either so as to develop them in a particular direction, or to block them, to stablize them, and to utilize them. 

In What is an Apparatus?, Agamben further specifies what an apparatus is in terms of its etymological root, oikonomia. Deconstructing this term, we find oikos, meaning at once the family, the family’s property, and the family’s home; and -nomia, the root of the suffix -nomy, meaning management and systematization. Therefore oikonomia signifies the management of the home, its contents, and its occupants. By unpacking these roots, Agamben arrives at the following description of the basic mechanics of an apparatus:

…a set of practies, bodies of knowledge, measures, and institutions that aim to manage, govern, control, and orient—in a way that purports to be useful—the behaviors, gestures, and thoughts of human beings.

Now, by viewing the sociopolitical taxonomies developed by Plato in the Republic through the lens of Foucault and Agamben’s apparatus, we discover the remarkable feat Plato has accomplished. Plato has created a complex apparatus of sociopolitical forces, in response to the immanent decay of Greek culture, in order to propose a timeless solution for the problem of resilient and effective political order. This apparatus resembles a system of levies, or locks in a canal, as described below.

Each type of political, social, and transcendental (metaphysical) order that Plato uncovers and examines builds upon the last, ultimately constructing a failsafe political order such that, if one part of the whole fails or disintegrates, the next levee or lock will catch the entire political order, preventing it from disintegrating entirely. This is certianly a remarkable and undeniably grand project to undertake; and if all of philosophy is nothing but a series of footnotes to Plato, how is it possible that every footnote has missed this key aspect of the Republic?

The key to this interpretation is in the structure of the dialog itself—the Republic is a dialectical argument through and through, using dialectics not only as a way of defeating opposition, but also as a way of building a layered and failsafe political order. For example: Plato’s character of Socrates pits the three parts of the soul (the rational, the spirited, and the appetitive) aganist each other over the course of the first half of the Republic in order to prove that the rational part should rule the soul; however, because Socrates’ argument is dialectical, it manages to establish a hierarchy of the three parts of the soul. By developing this hierarchy, Plato is able to construct a contained system within which the three parts of the soul act as barriers to prevent undesired behaviors by assigning each social class to be ruled by one part of the soul.

This is no small feat—in fact, it is nothing short of miraculous: Plato has managed to construct a failsafe political order implicitly through the dialetical structure of his dialog’s argumentation 